now to the war in Gaza and world leaders
have condemned an Israeli strike on a
humanitarian Convoy there that killed
its uh killed seven people working for
the NGO World Central Kitchen foreign
Nationals from Australia Poland the UK
and the US are among the victims US
President Joe Biden has said he was
outraged and heartbroken by the tragedy
while Australia slamed the attack as
completely unacceptable Israel has
blamed the strike on a misidentification
and called it a grave
mistake Secretary General Antonio gues
also condemned the attack and has called
for an immediate
ceasefire the devastating Israeli air
strikes that killed World Central
Kitchen Personnel
yesterday bring the number of Aid
workers killed in this conflict to
196 including more than 175 members of
our own un
stuff this is
unable but it is an inevit able result
of the way the war is being
conducted DW's Tanya Kramer is covering
the story in Jerusalem she told me
earlier that it's not clear if
International criticism will put further
pressure on Israel's prime minister to
change his Gaza
strategy well I think this is still uh
to see because we've heard a lot of this
uh International criticism a lot of
international pressure on the Israeli
cabinet uh to protect or to do more to
protect civil Ians given the high death
toll in Gaza among the civilian
population but that also of course
includes humanitarian workers that doing
essential work there to bring uh this
much needed uh Aid uh to the civilian uh
population and uh we heard you know this
is this this pressure is not really
always reflected uh on the ground and
the military efforts there seem uh most
of the times uh take a precedent
although Israel says it it does enough
to protect civilians now un officials
here in Jerusalem have said after the
incident that uh this is not an isolated
incident but it's of course the most
serious the most uh tragic one uh but
that there needs to be done uh more uh
to have a a working mechanism to make it
possible to that these convoys can go uh
into Gaza and uh deliver the aid that's
needed and also that humanitarian Aid
workers are uh protected under
International humanitarian
law now Israel describes the incident as
a grave mistake and it's promising a
thorough investigation but is that
likely to have any consequences
Tanya well as always the military then
says after such incidents that they're
investigating there are investigations
underway as to why and how this could
have happened but of course it's also uh
seen as problematic because it's the
military investigating itself so we have
to wait and see what are the outcomes of
this investigation the military said
they will share this then with uh the
NOS with World Central Kitchen and other
humanitarian actors now what is very
important here for humanitarian workers
and for Aid workers here is uh that
there will be uh a review of the
security Arrangements they are saying
basically the uh mechanism or deconflict
I in mechanism as they call it which
means they're coordinating with the
military every movement of their convoys
of their cars that are moving around in
an active combat zone it's a very
dangerous environment for them is not a
properly working and we've heard from
World Central Kitchen they had fully
coordinated as they said with the
military and as more details emerged
there a lot of questions now how this
could happen as this was a convoy of
three cars one of them at least was
clearly marked as World Central Kitchen
two of them armored uh as we understand
and they were all three are targeted
apparently according to reports here by
a drone strike so this is very important
for the aid workers here so they can
continue to do their
work Israel is also implicated in the
attack in Damascus that killed top
Iranian generals Tanya the Pentagon says
it believes Israel carried out the air
strike how is Israel reacting to all
this
Tanya well Israel is usually not
commenting uh on such strikes but uh
again here in the media of course among
military analysts it is very much
discussed uh as to the implications and
the consequences uh of this strike that
was uh in the Syrian Capital Damascus uh
and we heard from the Iranian supreme
leader uh saying that this
uh will require punishment now the
question here what's being discussed is
how will the retaliation look like uh
there's a discussion here that this is a
you know this Shadow War as it was
called between Iran and Israel is coming
out of the Shadow and it's a serious
seen as a serious escalation and now of
course everybody is waiting to see how
Iran will uh react to this uh there
could be uh you know several
possibilities we don't know yet they
could you know uh attack a diplomatic
overseas um um embassies for example but
also more closely here in the region you
know its proxies such as the houthis uh
from Yemen or Iraqi militias uh or hasah
in uh Southern Lebanon could retaliate
and that of course is a concern because
the Northern Area here the Border region
is already uh uh uh on a on very high
tensions Tanya thank you very much much
that was our correspondent Tanya Kramer
in
Jerusalem